feat(blog): introducing reports-server (#1218)
kyverno/website: content/en/blog/general/introducing-reports-server/index.md

---

> date: 2024-04-24

Reviewer: So late in reviewing...I'm sorry. Can you update the date, please?

title: Kyverno Reports Server - The ultimate solution to scale reporting
linkTitle: Kyverno Reports Server - The ultimate solution to scale reporting
author: Vishal Choudhary
description: Security or Scalability? Why not both!
---

## Introduction

Policy Reports are used by Kyverno to store the result of policies and cluster policies that match a resource. Kyverno generates reports during admission request as well as periodically as background scans. They are very helpful in auditing the current state of policy compliance in a cluster.

> Kyverno also creates its own custom ephemeral reports which are later aggregated to create the final policy reports or cluster policy reports. Policy reports and ephemeral reports are stored in etcd as Custom Kubernetes Resources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kyverno also creates its own custom ephemeral reports which are later aggregated to create the final policy reports or cluster policy reports. Policy reports and ephemeral reports are stored in etcd as Custom Resources. 
```

> This setup works fine in most cases but we start hitting the limits Kubernetes API server in a large cluster. During heavy reporting, the volume of data being written and retrieved by etcd puts the API server under severe load that can lead to poor performance. Moreover, etcd has a maximium capacity limit therefore, it can have a limited number of resources in it. This limit can be reached in large cluster with a lot of report producers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setup works fine in most cases, but in larger-scale environments the limits of the Kubernetes API server could be reached. During periods of especially heavy reporting, the volume of data being written to and read from etcd can put the API server under severe load which can lead to degraded performance. Additionally, etcd has a maximum capacity limit and therefore has a limited number of resources it may store. This limit can be reached in large clusters with many report producers.
```

> Today, we are excited to announce [reports-server](https://github.com/kyverno/reports-server), Kyverno's new project that aims to improve scalability of reporting in large cluster, so that you can have all the benefits of governance without compromising on performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, we are excited to announce [reports-server](https://github.com/kyverno/reports-server), a new Kyverno project which aims to improve scalability of reporting in large clusters giving you all the benefits of visibility without compromising on performance.
```

> In this blog post we will introduce reports-server, discuss its architecture and how to get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post we will introduce reports server, discuss its architecture, and provide steps on how to get started.
```

## Architecture

> The reports-server solves the problem of scalability of policy reports by storing policy reports outside of etcd in a relational database. This has the following advantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reports server solves the problem of scalability of policy reports by storing policy reports outside of etcd in a relational database. This has the following advantages:
```

1. Alleviation of the etcd + API server load and capacity limitations.
2. Common report consumer workflows can be more efficient.
3. With reports stored in a relational database, report consumers could instead query the underlying database directly, using more robust query syntax.

> The reports-server achieves this by using [Kubernetes API aggregation layer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/), where it creates an API service that takes all the request from the local api server and processes them in the reports-server. The reports-server has access to a relational database which it uses to store and query for policy reports and ephemeral reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
Reports server achieves this by using [Kubernetes API aggregation layer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/), where it creates an API service that takes all the requests from the local API server and processes them. Reports server has access to a relational database which it uses to store and query for policy reports and ephemeral reports.
```

> Here is a high level overview of the architecture:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A high-level overview of the architecture is shown below.
```

![Architecture](./architecture.svg)

## Performance

> The reports-server stores policy reports and ephemeral reports outside etcd this reducing the database size of etcd. In the following tables we shows the database size of etcd of increased workloads with and without reports server. In this test, we installed Kyverno policies to audit the Kubernetes pod security standards using 17 policies. Subsequently, we created workloads (pods, deployments, replicasets) that match the installed Kyverno policies and scheduled them on the fake KWOK nodes to measure total size of policy reports in etcd. [KWOK](https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/) is a toolkit that enables setting up a cluster of thousands of Nodes in seconds. `DB_SIZE` in the output of `etcdctl endpoint status -w table` was used to calculate etcd DB size. For more details on these tests, refer to the testing documentation for [the report controller](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/tree/main/docs/perf-testing). Kyverno version used for this testing was `v1.12.1`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reports server stores policy reports and ephemeral reports outside etcd thus reducing the database size of etcd. In the following tables, we show the database size of etcd of increased workloads with and without reports server. In this test, we installed Kyverno policies to audit the Kubernetes [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) using 17 policies. Subsequently, we created workloads (Pods, Deployments, ReplicaSets) that match the installed Kyverno policies and scheduled them on false kwok nodes to measure total size of policy reports in etcd. [kwok](https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/) is a toolkit that enables setting up a cluster of thousands of Nodes in seconds. `DB_SIZE` in the output of `etcdctl endpoint status -w table` was used to calculate etcd DB size. For more details on these tests, refer to the testing documentation for [the report controller](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/tree/main/docs/perf-testing). The version of Kyverno used in this testing was 1.12.1. 
```

> ### Without reports-server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Without Reports Server
```

> | # policyreports | total etcd size |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Number of Policy Reports | Total etcd Size |
```

| --------------- | --------------- |
| 1270            | 134 MB          |
| 2470            | 223 MB          |
| 3770            | 280 MB          |
| 4970            | 334 MB          |
| 7370            | 467 MB          |
| 9770            | 552 MB          |
| 10010           | 552 MB          |

> ### With reports-server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### With Reports Server
```

> | # policyreports | total etcd size |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Number of Policy Reports | Total etcd Size |
```

| --------------- | --------------- |
| 1204            | 71 MB           |
| 2404            | 115 MB          |
| 3604            | 152 MB          |
| 4804            | 191 MB          |
| 7204            | 276 MB          |
| 9604            | 343 MB          |
| 10250           | 370 MB          |

> As shown in the benchmark, the size of etcd grows with increase in the number of resources in the cluster but the growth is slower when reports-server is installed. As reports-server stores policy reports in a seperate database, they don't take up any space in etcd. At 10k reports, database size of etcd is 33% smaller when reports-server is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in the benchmark, the size of etcd grows as the number of resources in the cluster grows, but the growth is slower when reports server is installed. As reports server stores policy reports in a separate database, they don't take up any space in etcd. At 10,000 reports, the database size of etcd is 33% smaller compared to when reports server is installed.
```

## Getting Started

> To start using the reports-server, you have to install it in your cluster, and after some moments, all the reports related requests will be redirected for etcd to the reports server database.. Reports-server has multiple methods for installation: YAML manifest and Helm Chart. Detailed instructions for all installation methods can be found in the [installation guide](https://github.com/kyverno/reports-server/blob/main/docs/INSTALL.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started using reports server, install the service in your cluster. After a period of time, all the reports-related requests will be redirected from etcd to the reports server database. Reports server has multiple methods for installation including a basic YAML manifest and Helm chart. Detailed instructions for all installation methods can be found in the [installation guide](https://github.com/kyverno/reports-server/blob/main/docs/INSTALL.md).
```

> To install reports server using YAML manifest, run the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install reports server using the YAML manifest, run the following commands:
```

> Create a namespace for reports-server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a namespace for reports server:
```

```bash
kubectl create ns reports-server
```

> Apply the reports-server manifest:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the reports server manifest:
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyverno/reports-server/main/config/install.yaml
```

> This install manifest will install the following things

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The manifest will install the following components:
```

1. A deployment and service for the reports server

> 2. A postgres instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A Postgres instance
```

> 3. An API service to redirect requests to the reports-server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. An API service to redirect requests to reports server
```

> Reports-server comes with a postgreSQL database but you can have finer control of the database configation by bringing your own database. See the [database configuration guide](https://github.com/kyverno/reports-server/blob/main/docs/DBCONFIG.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reports server comes with a PostgreSQL database, but you may opt for finer control of the database configuration by bringing your own database. See the [database configuration guide](https://github.com/kyverno/reports-server/blob/main/docs/DBCONFIG.md) for more details.
```

### Migration

> If you already have policy reports CRD installed in your cluster, you will have an existing API service managed by kube-aggregator that sends requests to the kubernetes API server. You will have to update the existing API service to send request to reports-server. See the [migration guide](https://github.com/kyverno/reports-server/blob/main/docs/MIGRATION.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have the PolicyReport CRD installed in your cluster, you will have an existing API service managed by kube-aggregator that sends requests to the Kubernetes API server. You will have to update the existing API service to send request to reports server. See the [migration guide](https://github.com/kyverno/reports-server/blob/main/docs/MIGRATION.md) for more details.
```

## Conclusion

> In this short blog post we demonstrated how reports server can be used to store policy reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this short blog post, we demonstrated how reports server can be used to store policy reports.
```

> The reports-server is a new project from Kyverno that can be helpful for users with a large cluster with a huge reporting activity. This project is maintained by Kyverno and will have future updates and features based on feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reports server is a new project from Kyverno that can be helpful for users with large scale reporting needs. This project is maintained by Kyverno and will have future updates and features based on feedback.
```
